Now, let's discuss a
few practical tips for randomization. You should always
strive to document your assignment schedule as a
measure of quality control. You need to collect all
baseline data before assignment and the participant should be eligible
and ready to begin, meaning, the participant needs to provide
informed consent. Assignments are irrevocable, this is really important. So when an assignment is made, meaning that study
participants ends up in one of the treatment groups
it should not be changed. You might imagine that the study participant doesn't like this particular
treatment group or you think he or she should really be
in the other group. But we cannot change
those assignments because this is what our
randomization is all about, we want a random distribution of our people across our groups. Sometimes people would cross over and there's not
much we can do about it. At least we have to
record it and overall it, they should be rare occurrences and we need to
consider this when we analyze our data and we'll talk about this just
in a little bit. Always keep assignments
concealed until they are used. This is called concealment
of random allocation, very important so
that people don't opt in or out based on the
next available assignment, and also investigators don't
try and shuffle people into certain groups based on their beliefs as to what
treatment is better. Usually, we combine this
concealment with treatment masking and you should try and
avoid quasi randomization. Sometimes you see
that people receive the intervention based
on the day of the week or birth date or for example the last letter of the family name or
something along those lines. This is not random but this is predictable and it should
therefore not be done. This is not even easier
than a real randomization, so I would always counsel
groups to do their best to do a real randomization and nothing that
can be predicted. A few practical aspects of
issuing treatment assignment. You may use envelopes that
you deposit at a study site. This is simple but it may
be subject to misconduct, so people would try and figure out what the
next assignment is by holding the envelope against the lights or something
along those lines, maybe even open them. There is the possibility
of misconduct. You could also issue
treatment assignment over the telephone
which is cumbersome. You would call a number
and then you would receive a treatment
code or the number of a certain bottle that you have in your cabinet and give to the study participant
or something like this. You would not get information
like the patient is in the active treatment or in
the placebo group because you too as the investigator
are hopefully masked. Online treatment assignments
are really the way to go. It requires expertise but it
is feasible and accepted. You just log on to a website, you typically enter data about the study participant into
your entry code and then you receive some assignment or the number of a pillbox
or something like this.