Let's talk about
the other big topic of the day and that is masking. What is masking? We conceal something from, for example, the
study participants, the study team, the outcome assessors or
perhaps other people, sometimes we call this blinding. What do we typically mask? We mask the treatment, this is a classic, when we use placebos then study participants and
clinical personnel don't know what treatment a study participant
has been assigned to. We also mask the outcome meaning when we
assess the outcome, when we measure the outcome, that person that measures
the outcome must not know what the
treatment assignment of this particular
study participant is. Why do we do that? We reduce bias, in this case this bias is called information bias because
patients might self-report data and there is also a placebo effect happening
when people know they take a placebo substance and investigators might collect
data differently based on the knowledge of treatment
assignment and they might also assess the outcome differently based
on that knowledge. The same applies to
adverse event assessment. Who can be masked? You could mask one group
that would be usually the study participant
or the participant and investigator in a
double masked fashion. You might include an independent outcome assessor
that's sometimes called triple masked or
the statistician that would be quadruple masked. Now, what's important is that this terminology
is inconsistent. When you're reading
reports or when you are writing your report, always check and describe
who exactly has been masked. Masking can be difficult. It's expensive to mask a
drug so placebos can be very costly and can in fact cost much more than the active drug. They don't help much when
they are poorly done, when the weight doesn't
match the color, the appearance, the texture, the taste, etc. Sometimes unmasking is too easy. When people open capsules, when we over encapsulate
and then they can see whether the capsule contains an active substance or some placebo powder or when people weigh
packages, for example. But there's also an
unmasking that is very hard to prevent because
of side effects. Active drugs can have
side effects and that can be pronounced and
an experienced clinician may be able to see
those side effects in a study participant and based on those side effects figure out what group that
participant is in. Masking can even be impossible, for example, in some
surgical trials, though there are sham procedures around and they have been used successfully or imagined behavioral interventions
where you, for example, try and
determine the effect of a treadmill regimen versus
yoga to reduce blood pressure. Now the study participant would know whether they are
on the treadmill or taking yoga lessons
but the person measuring the blood
pressure must not know what group that study participant is in and also your statistician can be
masked easily because the statistician can work with
treatment A or treatment B and once all the data are collected and the
database is locked, then and only then do we break the code and then we see
which treatment is better. A rule of thumb is even if
you can't mask everyone, you should always strive to mask as many people as you can
to reduce information bias.